feat: milvus document store (#587)
docarray/docarray: docs/advanced/document-store/milvus.md

        ]
    )

print('\nIndexed Prices:\n')
for embedding, price in zip(da.embeddings, da[:, 'tags__price']):
    print(f'\tembedding={embedding},\t price={price}')
```

Suppose you want to filter results such that
retrieved Documents must have a `price` value less than or equal to `max_price`. You can encode 
this information in Milvus using `filter = f'price <= {max_price}'`.

Then you can implement and use the search with the proposed filter:
```python
max_price = 7
n_limit = 4

filter = f'price <= {max_price}'
results = da.find(filter=filter, limit=n_limit)

print('\nPoints with "price" at most 7:\n')
for embedding, price in zip(results.embeddings, results[:, 'tags__price']):
    print(f'\tembedding={embedding},\t price={price}')
```
This prints:

```

Points with "price" at most 7:

	embedding=[6. 6. 6.],	 price=6
	embedding=[7. 7. 7.],	 price=7
	embedding=[1. 1. 1.],	 price=1
	embedding=[2. 2. 2.],	 price=2
```

(milvus-limitations)=
## Known limitations of the Milvus Document Store

The Milvus Document Store implements the entire DocumentArray API, but there are some limitations that you should be aware of.

(milvus-collection-loading)=
### Collection loading

> In Milvus, every search or query operation requires the index to be loaded into memory.

Author: I assume so, though Milvus' documentation doesn't specify.

(milvus)=
# Milvus

One can use [Milvus](https://milvus.io/) as the Document store for DocumentArray. It is useful when one wants to have faster Document retrieval on embeddings, i.e. `.match()`, `.find()`.

````{tip}

> This feature requires `pymilvus`. You can install it via `pip install "docarray[milvus]".` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature requires `pymilvus`. You can install it via `pip install "docarray[milvus]"`. 
```

      interval: 30s
      timeout: 20s
      retries: 3

  standalone:
    container_name: milvus-standalone
    image: milvusdb/milvus:v2.1.4
    command: ["milvus", "run", "standalone"]
    environment:
      ETCD_ENDPOINTS: etcd:2379
      MINIO_ADDRESS: minio:9000
    volumes:
      - ${DOCKER_VOLUME_DIRECTORY:-.}/volumes/milvus:/var/lib/milvus
    ports:
      - "19530:19530"
      - "9091:9091"
    depends_on:
      - "etcd"
      - "minio"

networks:
  default:
    name: milvus
```

`````

Then

```bash
docker-compose up
```

You can find more installation guidance in the [Milvus documentation](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/install_standalone-docker.md).

### Create DocumentArray with Milvus backend

Assuming the service is started using the default configuration (i.e. the server's gRPC address is `http://localhost:19530`), you can 
instantiate a DocumentArray with Milvus storage like so:

```python
from docarray import DocumentArray

da = DocumentArray(storage='milvus', config={'n_dim': 10})
```

Here, `config` is configuration for the new Milvus collection,
and `n_dim` is a mandatory field that specifies the dimensionality of stored embeddings.

> For more information about the Milvus `config`, refer to the {ref}`specification <milvus-config>`.

Reviewer: @alexcg1 pointed out this style guide before: https://developers.google.com/style/link-text
```suggestion
For more information about the Milvus `config`, refer to the {ref}`config <milvus-config>`.
```

`.append()`, `.extend()`, `.find()`, and `.insert()`.

### Setting a batch size

You can configure your DocumentArray to, on every relevant operation, send Documents to the Milvus database in batches.
This default `batch_size` can be specified in the DocumentArray {ref}`config <milvus-config>`.

If you do not specify a default batch size, no batching will be performed.

When performing a specific operation, you can override this default batch size by passing a `batch_size` parameter:

```python
from docarray import DocumentArray, Document
import numpy as np

da = DocumentArray(
    storage='milvus',
    config={'batch_size': 100, 'n_dim': 3},
)

da.append(Document(tensor=np.random.rand(3)))  # batch size is 100
da.append(Document(tensor=np.random.rand(3)), batch_size=5)  # batch size is 5
```

Currently, dynamically setting a consistency level is supported for the following operations:
`.append()`, `.extend()`, and `.insert()`.

### Passing search parameters

In Milvus you can [pass parameters to the search operation](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/search.md#Conduct-a-vector-search) which [depend on the used index type](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/index.md).

> In DocumentArray, this ability is exposed through the `param` argument in the `.find()` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In DocumentArray, this ability is exposed through the `param` argument in the `~docarray.array.mixins.find` method:
```

(milvus)=
# Milvus

One can use [Milvus](https://milvus.io/) as the Document store for DocumentArray. It is useful when one wants to have faster Document retrieval on embeddings, i.e. `.match()`, `.find()`.

````{tip}
This feature requires `pymilvus`. You can install it via `pip install "docarray[milvus]".` 
````

## Usage

### Start Milvus service

To use Milvus as the storage backend, you need a running Milvus server. You can use the following `docker-compose.yml`
to start a Milvus server:

`````{dropdown} docker-compose.yml

```yaml
version: '3.5'

services:
  etcd:
    container_name: milvus-etcd
    image: quay.io/coreos/etcd:v3.5.0
    environment:
      - ETCD_AUTO_COMPACTION_MODE=revision
      - ETCD_AUTO_COMPACTION_RETENTION=1000
      - ETCD_QUOTA_BACKEND_BYTES=4294967296
      - ETCD_SNAPSHOT_COUNT=50000
    volumes:
      - ${DOCKER_VOLUME_DIRECTORY:-.}/volumes/etcd:/etcd
    command: etcd -advertise-client-urls=http://127.0.0.1:2379 -listen-client-urls http://0.0.0.0:2379 --data-dir /etcd

>   minio:

Reviewer: I'm afraid this  can get stale at some point (although we are actually pinning container versions).
It would be really great if we find this yaml in the official versioned documentation and point to it

    container_name: milvus-minio
    image: minio/minio:RELEASE.2022-03-17T06-34-49Z
    environment:
      MINIO_ACCESS_KEY: minioadmin
      MINIO_SECRET_KEY: minioadmin
    volumes:
      - ${DOCKER_VOLUME_DIRECTORY:-.}/volumes/minio:/minio_data
    command: minio server /minio_data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost:9000/minio/health/live"]
      interval: 30s
      timeout: 20s
      retries: 3

  standalone:
    container_name: milvus-standalone
    image: milvusdb/milvus:v2.1.4
    command: ["milvus", "run", "standalone"]
    environment:
      ETCD_ENDPOINTS: etcd:2379
      MINIO_ADDRESS: minio:9000
    volumes:
      - ${DOCKER_VOLUME_DIRECTORY:-.}/volumes/milvus:/var/lib/milvus
    ports:
      - "19530:19530"
      - "9091:9091"
    depends_on:
      - "etcd"
      - "minio"

networks:
  default:
    name: milvus
```

`````

Then

```bash
docker-compose up
```

> You can find more installation guidance in the [Milvus documentation](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/install_standalone-docker.md).

Reviewer: exactly the link provided in this page, maybe instead of putting the whole yaml file, we just link to https://github.com/milvus-io/milvus/releases/download/v2.1.4/milvus-standalone-docker-compose.yml

### Create DocumentArray with Milvus backend

> Assuming service is started using the default configuration (i.e. the server's gRPC address `http://localhost:19530`), you can 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming the service is started using the default configuration (i.e. the server's gRPC address is `http://localhost:19530`), you can 
```

instantiate a DocumentArray with Milvus storage like so:

```python
from docarray import DocumentArray

da = DocumentArray(storage='milvus', config={'n_dim': 10})
```

> Here, `config` is configuration for the created Milvus collection,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, `config` is configuration for the new Milvus collection,
```

Not essential, but I think it would be good to make clear that this is configuration for a newly-created collection, not a previously-created one.

> and `n_dim` is a mandatory field that specified the dimensionality of stored embeddings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and `n_dim` is a mandatory field that specifies the dimensionality of stored embeddings.
```

> You can find a complete specification of the Milvus `config` {ref}`here <milvus-config>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the Milvus `config`, refer to the {ref}`specification <milvus-config>`.
```

> To access a previously persisted DocumentArray, you can specify the `collection_name`, the `host`  and the `port`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access a previously persisted DocumentArray, specify the `collection_name`, the `host`,  and the `port`. 
```

| `n_dim`             | Number of dimensions of embeddings to be stored and retrieved                                                                                                                                                                                 | **This is always required**                          |
| `collection_name`   | Qdrant collection name client                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | **Random collection name generated**                 |
| `host`              | Hostname of the Milvus server                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 'localhost'                                          |

> | `port`              | port of the Milvus server                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 6333                                                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `port`              | Port of the Milvus server                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 6333                                                 |
```

> | `distance`          | Distance metric to be used during search. Can be 'IP', 'L2', 'JACCARD', 'TANIMOTO', 'HAMMING', 'SUPERSTRUCTURE' or 'SUBSTRUCTURE'.                                                                                                            | 'IP' (inner product)                                 |

Reviewer: let's also point to the supported distances in the official docs

> | `index_type`        | Type of the (ANN) search index. Can be 'HNSW', 'FLAT', 'ANNOY', or one of multiple variants of IVF and RHNSW. A full list of supported index types can be found [here](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/build_index.md#Prepare-index-parameter). | 'HNSW                                                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `index_type`        | Type of the (ANN) search index. Can be 'HNSW', 'FLAT', 'ANNOY', or one of multiple variants of IVF and RHNSW. Refer to the [list of supported index types](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/build_index.md#Prepare-index-parameter). | 'HNSW'                                               |
```

> | `index_params`      | A dictionary of parameters used for index building. The allowed parameters depend on the index type, and can be found [here](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/index.md).                                                                         | {'M': 4, 'efConstruction': 200} (assumes HNSW index) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `index_params`      | A dictionary of parameters used for index building. The [allowed parameters](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/index.md) depend on the index type.                                                                         | {'M': 4, 'efConstruction': 200} (assumes HNSW index) |
```

| `serialize_config`  | [Serialization config of each Document](../../../fundamentals/document/serialization.md)                                                                                                                                                      | {}                                                   |
 | `consistency_level` | [Consistency level](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/consistency.md#Consistency-levels) for Milvus database operations. Can be 'Session', 'Strong', 'Bounded' or 'Eventually'.                                                                   | 'Session'                                            |
| `columns`           | Additional columns to be stored in the datbase, taken from Document `tags`.                                                                                                                                                                   | None                                                 |

## Minimal example

Create `docker-compose.yml`:

> `````{dropdown} docker-compose.yml

Reviewer: isn't this already covered ?
If we need a command maybe just this: 
```
wget https://github.com/milvus-io/milvus/releases/download/v2.1.4/milvus-standalone-docker-compose.yml -O docker-compose.yml
```

    environment:
      MINIO_ACCESS_KEY: minioadmin
      MINIO_SECRET_KEY: minioadmin
    volumes:
      - ${DOCKER_VOLUME_DIRECTORY:-.}/volumes/minio:/minio_data
    command: minio server /minio_data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost:9000/minio/health/live"]
      interval: 30s
      timeout: 20s
      retries: 3

  standalone:
    container_name: milvus-standalone
    image: milvusdb/milvus:v2.1.4
    command: ["milvus", "run", "standalone"]
    environment:
      ETCD_ENDPOINTS: etcd:2379
      MINIO_ADDRESS: minio:9000
    volumes:
      - ${DOCKER_VOLUME_DIRECTORY:-.}/volumes/milvus:/var/lib/milvus
    ports:
      - "19530:19530"
      - "9091:9091"
    depends_on:
      - "etcd"
      - "minio"

networks:
  default:
    name: milvus
```

`````

Install DocArray with Milvus and launch the Milvus server:

```bash
pip install -U docarray[milvus]
docker-compose up
```

Create a DocumentArray with some random data:

```python
import numpy as np

from docarray import DocumentArray

N, D = 5, 128

da = DocumentArray.empty(
    N, storage='milvus', config={'n_dim': D, 'distance': 'IP'}
)  # init
with da:

>     da.embeddings = np.random.random([N, D])

Reviewer: I don't think this interface is the first thing users should see.
I believe append/extend should be the first one

```

Perform an approximate nearest neighbor search:

```
print(da.find(np.random.random(D), limit=10))
```
Output:

```bash
<DocumentArray (length=10) at 4917906896>
```

(milvus-filter)=
## Vector search with filter

Search with `.find` can be restricted by user-defined filters.

Such filters can be constructed using the [filter expression language defined by Milvus](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/boolean.md).
Filters operate on the `tags` of a Document, which are stored as `columns` in the Milvus database.

### Example of `.find` with filtered vector search

Consider Documents with embeddings `[0,0,0]` up to ` [9,9,9]` where the Document with embedding `[i,i,i]`

> has as tag `price` with value `i`. We can create such an example with the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
has a tag `price` with value `i`. We can create such an example with the following code:
```

> has as tag `price` with value `i`. We can create such example with the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
has as tag `price` with value `i`. We can create such an example with the following code:
```

"create this example" would also work

```python
from docarray import Document, DocumentArray
import numpy as np

n_dim = 3
distance = 'L2'

da = DocumentArray(
    storage='milvus',
    config={'n_dim': n_dim, 'columns': {'price': 'float'}, 'distance': distance},
)

print(f'\nDocumentArray distance: {distance}')

with da:
    da.extend(
        [
            Document(id=f'r{i}', embedding=i * np.ones(n_dim), tags={'price': i})
            for i in range(10)
        ]
    )

print('\nIndexed Prices:\n')
for embedding, price in zip(da.embeddings, da[:, 'tags__price']):
    print(f'\tembedding={embedding},\t price={price}')
```

Consider we want the nearest vectors to the embedding `[8. 8. 8.]`, with the restriction that
prices must follow a filter. As an example, retrieved Documents must have `price` value lower than

> or equal to `max_price`. We can encode this information in Milvus using `filter = f'price <= {max_price}'`.

Reviewer: I'd avoid the word encode

for embedding, price in zip(results.embeddings, results[:, 'tags__price']):
    print(f'\tembedding={embedding},\t price={price}')
```

This will print:

```
Query vector: 	[8. 8. 8.]

Embeddings Nearest Neighbours with "price" at most 7:

	embedding=[7. 7. 7.],	 price=7
	embedding=[6. 6. 6.],	 price=6
	embedding=[5. 5. 5.],	 price=5
	embedding=[4. 4. 4.],	 price=4
```
### Example of `.find` with only a filter

The following example shows how to use DocArray with Milvus Document Store in order to filter text documents.
Consider Documents have the tag `price` with a value of `i`. We can create these with the following code:

```python
from docarray import Document, DocumentArray
import numpy as np

n_dim = 3

da = DocumentArray(
    storage='milvus',
    config={'n_dim': n_dim, 'columns': {'price': 'float'}},
)

with da:
    da.extend(
        [
            Document(id=f'r{i}', embedding=i * np.ones(n_dim), tags={'price': i})
            for i in range(10)
        ]
    )

print('\nIndexed Prices:\n')
for embedding, price in zip(da.embeddings, da[:, 'tags__price']):
    print(f'\tembedding={embedding},\t price={price}')
```

Suppose you want to filter results such that

> retrieved Documents must have a `price` value less than or equal to `max_price`. You can encode 

Reviewer: same here for encode

this information in Milvus using `filter = f'price <= {max_price}'`.

Then you can implement and use the search with the proposed filter:
```python
max_price = 7
n_limit = 4

filter = f'price <= {max_price}'
results = da.find(filter=filter, limit=n_limit)

print('\nPoints with "price" at most 7:\n')
for embedding, price in zip(results.embeddings, results[:, 'tags__price']):
    print(f'\tembedding={embedding},\t price={price}')
```
This prints:

```

Points with "price" at most 7:

	embedding=[6. 6. 6.],	 price=6
	embedding=[7. 7. 7.],	 price=7
	embedding=[1. 1. 1.],	 price=1
	embedding=[2. 2. 2.],	 price=2
```

> ## Advancded options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Advanced options
```

da.append(
    Document(tensor=np.random.rand(3)), consistency_level='Strong'
)  # consistency level is 'Strong'
```

Currently, dynamically setting a consistency level is supported for the following operations:
`.append()`, `.extend()`, `.find()`, and `.insert()`.

### Passing search parameters

In Milvus you can [pass parameters to the search operation](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/search.md#Conduct-a-vector-search) which [depend on the used index type](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.1.x/index.md).

In DocumentArray, this ability is exposed through the `param` argument in the `.find()` method:

```python
import numpy as np

from docarray import DocumentArray

N, D = 5, 128

da = DocumentArray.empty(
    N, storage='milvus', config={'n_dim': D, 'distance': 'IP'}
)  # init
with da:
    da.embeddings = np.random.random([N, D])

da.find(
    np.random.random(D), limit=10, param={"metric_type": "L2", "params": {"nprobe": 10}}
)
```

(milvus-limitations)=
## Known limitations of the Milvus Document Store

The Milvus Document Store implements the entire DocumentArray API, but there are some limitations that you should be aware of.

(milvus-collection-loading)=

> ### Collection loading

Reviewer: can we add a reference from milvus docs to consolidate this fact ?

In Milvus, every search or query operation requires the index to be loaded into memory.

> This includes simple Document access through DocArray, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This includes simple Document access through DocArray.
```

# index is released from memory
```

Not using the `with da:` context manager will return the same results for the same operations, but will incur significant performance penalties:

````{dropdown} ⚠️ Bad code

```python
from docarray import Document, DocumentArray
import numpy as np

da = DocumentArray(
    [Document(id=f'r{i}', embedding=i * np.ones(3)) for i in range(10)],
    storage='milvus',
    config={'n_dim': 3},
)

for d in da:  # index is loaded and released at every iteration
    pass

embs, texts = (
    da.embeddings,
    da.texts,
)  # index is loaded and released for every Document in `da`
```

````

### Storing large tensors outside of `embedding` field

It is currently not possible to persist Documents with a large `.tensor` field.

A suitable workaround for this is to remove a Document's tensor after computing its embedding and before adding it to the
Document Store:

```python
from docarray import Document, DocumentArray

da = DocumentArray(storage='milvus', config={'n_dim': 128})

doc = Document(tensor=np.random.rand(224, 224))
doc.embed(...)
doc.tensor = None

da.append(doc)
```

````{dropdown} Why does this limitation exist?

> By default, DocArray stores three columns in any Document Store: The Document id's, the Document embeddings and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, DocArray stores three columns in any Document Store: The Document ids, the Document embeddings and
```

a serialized (Base64 encoded) representation of the Document itself.

> In Milvus, the the serialized Document are stored in a column of type 'VARCHAR', which imposes a limit of allowed length

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Milvus, the the serialized Documents are stored in a column of type 'VARCHAR', which imposes a limit of allowed length
```
